The commutative ring of rational numbers (#1107)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/elementary-number-theory/ring-of-rational-numbers.lagda.md

# The ring of rational numbers

```agda
{-# OPTIONS --lossy-unification #-}

module elementary-number-theory.ring-of-rational-numbers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import commutative-algebra.commutative-rings

open import elementary-number-theory.addition-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.group-of-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.multiplication-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.rational-numbers

open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import ring-theory.rings
```

</details>

## Idea

The
[commutative group of rational numbers](elementary-number-theory.group-of-rational-numbers.md)
equipped with
[multiplication](elementary-number-theory.multiplication-rational-numbers.md) is
a [commutative](commutative-algebra.commutative-rings.md)

> [ring](ring-theory.rings.md).

Reviewer: I'm not sure this way of splitting the link is good practice. Its probably better if the composite term links to commutative ring. Note that if the reader wants to find the file on rings, they likely expect to find a link to it in the file on commutative rings.

Author: This will soon become "a commutative division ring" and `[commutative division ring]` would redirect to [`discrete-fields`](https://unimath.github.io/agda-unimath/commutative-algebra.discrete-fields.html), which seems  a bit circular (there _will_ be a `discrete-field-of-rational-numbers` module importing `ring-of-rational-numbers` proving `is-discrete-field-Commutative-Ring ℚ-Commutative-Ring`). 

So it will have to be, at least `[commutative](xx) [division ring](xx)`, but I'd prefer `[commutative](commutative-algebra.commutative-rings.md) [division](ring-theory.division-rings.md) [ring](ring-theory.rings.md)` (one file per concept / one concept per file, etc.).

Reviewer: I still believe it is unwanted to have two words in a composite term link to separate pages. It will not be clear to a reader that clicking on the word "ring" in the term "commutative ring" sends them to a different page than clicking on "commutative". Instead, if you want to have links to both, you should rephrase such that "ring" appears as a term by itself too. If this term is already important to the discussion then this will improve the prose too.

Author: ok. Let's change it and re-think about it later when we have to rephrase this to mention the division-ring property.

## Definitions

### The commutative ring of rational numbers

```agda
ℚ-Ring : Ring lzero
pr1 ℚ-Ring = ℚ-Ab
pr1 (pr1 (pr2 ℚ-Ring)) = mul-ℚ
pr2 (pr1 (pr2 ℚ-Ring)) = associative-mul-ℚ
pr1 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℚ-Ring))) = one-ℚ
pr1 (pr2 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℚ-Ring)))) = left-unit-law-mul-ℚ
pr2 (pr2 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℚ-Ring)))) = right-unit-law-mul-ℚ
pr1 (pr2 (pr2 (pr2 ℚ-Ring))) = left-distributive-mul-add-ℚ

> pr2 (pr2 (pr2 (pr2 ℚ-Ring))) = right-distributive-mul-add-ℚ

Reviewer: This definition is pretty long winded. In these cases, we prefer to make multiple smaller definitions. E.g. (although I don't recall the precise way we define rings)
define `is-monoid-mul-Q`, then `is-ring-Q` and then use those in your definition of the ring.

Reviewer: It doesn't hurt to define all of the smaller parts you can

Reviewer: That constitute a part of the definition is `Ring` that is

Author: You know I just copy/pasted the [elementary-number-theory.ring-of-integers](https://unimath.github.io/agda-unimath/elementary-number-theory.ring-of-integers.html) module, right 😅 ?

```agda
ℤ-Ring : Ring lzero
pr1 ℤ-Ring = ℤ-Ab
pr1 (pr1 (pr2 ℤ-Ring)) = mul-ℤ
pr2 (pr1 (pr2 ℤ-Ring)) = associative-mul-ℤ
pr1 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℤ-Ring))) = one-ℤ
pr1 (pr2 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℤ-Ring)))) = left-unit-law-mul-ℤ
pr2 (pr2 (pr1 (pr2 (pr2 ℤ-Ring)))) = right-unit-law-mul-ℤ
pr1 (pr2 (pr2 (pr2 ℤ-Ring))) = left-distributive-mul-add-ℤ
pr2 (pr2 (pr2 (pr2 ℤ-Ring))) = right-distributive-mul-add-ℤ
```

Author: see https://github.com/UniMath/agda-unimath/pull/1107/commits/18d3e4046c29b960b2df494c981ffcf51bd7846c

Reviewer: Our library is not perfect 🥲
> see https://github.com/UniMath/agda-unimath/pull/1107/commits/18d3e4046c29b960b2df494c981ffcf51bd7846c

Perfect!

Reviewer: it can wait

# The ring of rational numbers

```agda
{-# OPTIONS --lossy-unification #-}

module elementary-number-theory.ring-of-rational-numbers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import commutative-algebra.commutative-rings

open import elementary-number-theory.addition-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.group-of-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.multiplication-rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.rational-numbers

open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.unital-binary-operations
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import group-theory.semigroups

open import ring-theory.rings
```

</details>

## Idea

The
[commutative group of rational numbers](elementary-number-theory.group-of-rational-numbers.md)
equipped with
[multiplication](elementary-number-theory.multiplication-rational-numbers.md) is
a [commutative](commutative-algebra.commutative-rings.md)
[ring](ring-theory.rings.md).

> ## Lemmas
> 
> ### The abelian group of rational numbers has a compatible multiplicative structure
> 
> ```agda
> has-associative-mul-ℚ : has-associative-mul ℚ
> pr1 has-associative-mul-ℚ = mul-ℚ
> pr2 has-associative-mul-ℚ = associative-mul-ℚ
> 
> is-unital-mul-ℚ : is-unital mul-ℚ
> pr1 is-unital-mul-ℚ = one-ℚ
> pr1 (pr2 is-unital-mul-ℚ) = left-unit-law-mul-ℚ
> pr2 (pr2 is-unital-mul-ℚ) = right-unit-law-mul-ℚ
> 
> has-mul-Ab-ℚ : has-mul-Ab ℚ-Ab
> pr1 has-mul-Ab-ℚ = has-associative-mul-ℚ
> pr1 (pr2 has-mul-Ab-ℚ) = is-unital-mul-ℚ
> pr1 (pr2 (pr2 has-mul-Ab-ℚ)) = left-distributive-mul-add-ℚ
> pr2 (pr2 (pr2 has-mul-Ab-ℚ)) = right-distributive-mul-add-ℚ
> ```
> 
> ## Definitions
> 
> ### The commutative ring of rational numbers
> 
> ```agda
> ℚ-Ring : Ring lzero
> pr1 ℚ-Ring = ℚ-Ab
> pr2 ℚ-Ring = has-mul-Ab-ℚ

Reviewer: This is how we usually arrange this:
````suggestion
## Definitions

### The compatible multiplicative structure on the abelian group of rational numbers

```agda
has-associative-mul-ℚ : has-associative-mul ℚ
pr1 has-associative-mul-ℚ = mul-ℚ
pr2 has-associative-mul-ℚ = associative-mul-ℚ

is-unital-mul-ℚ : is-unital mul-ℚ
pr1 is-unital-mul-ℚ = one-ℚ
pr1 (pr2 is-unital-mul-ℚ) = left-unit-law-mul-ℚ
pr2 (pr2 is-unital-mul-ℚ) = right-unit-law-mul-ℚ

has-mul-ℚ-Ab : has-mul-Ab ℚ-Ab
pr1 has-mul-ℚ-Ab = has-associative-mul-ℚ
pr1 (pr2 has-mul-ℚ-Ab) = is-unital-mul-ℚ
pr1 (pr2 (pr2 has-mul-ℚ-Ab)) = left-distributive-mul-add-ℚ
pr2 (pr2 (pr2 has-mul-ℚ-Ab)) = right-distributive-mul-add-ℚ
```

### The ring of rational numbers

```agda
ℚ-Ring : Ring lzero
pr1 ℚ-Ring = ℚ-Ab
pr2 ℚ-Ring = has-mul-ℚ-Ab
```

### The commutative ring of rational numbers
```agda
````

Reviewer: note also that `has-mul-Ab-ℚ` should be named `has-mul-ℚ-Ab`

Reviewer: oh, whoops, this suggestion introduces a small formatting mistake, but it will be fixed by pre-commit

Reviewer: You know, this would be even better if we had a separate definition for distributivity of the multiplication operation. In fact, I am tempted to add a file about multiplication operations on abelian* groups.
